Moved and revised the is operator article (#23884)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/language-reference/operators/is.md

---
title: "is operator - C# reference"
description: "Learn about the C# is operator that matches an expression against a pattern"
ms.date: 04/23/2021
f1_keywords: 
  - "is_CSharpKeyword"
  - "is"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "is keyword [C#]"
ms.assetid: bc62316a-d41f-4f90-8300-c6f4f0556e43
---
# is operator (C# reference)

In C# 6 and earlier, the `is` operator checks if the result of an expression is compatible with a given type. For information about the type-testing `is` operator, see the [is operator](type-testing-and-cast.md#is-operator) section of the [Type-testing and cast operators](type-testing-and-cast.md) article.

Beginning with C# 7.0, you can also use the `is` operator to match an expression against a pattern, as the following example shows:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/shared/IsOperator.cs" id="IntroExample":::

In the preceding example, the `is` operator matches an expression against a [property pattern](patterns.md#property-pattern) with nested [constant](patterns.md#constant-pattern) and [relational](patterns.md#relational-patterns) patterns.

The `is` operator can be useful in the following scenarios:

> - To check the runtime type of an expression, as the following example shows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To check the run-time type of an expression, as the following example shows:
```
